# A11. Discover 5 unique access control devices.

## 1) Biometric Readers (Face ID, Fingerprint etc.) 

Biometric readers provide access control by using something only that is uniquely from that individual such as their face, voice, fingerprint etc. by capturing, analyzing, and converting their trait into an encrypted digital template which is then compared. 

## 2) Keypads/PIN Pads

Often used for the most simplest of things (like a gate to access a property or your pin code to make a transaction), a pin pad is essentially a several digit code (usually 4 or 6 numbers) that only 'authorised' people know. 

## 3) Boom Gates

Used in car parks to only allow people who have 'access' to the car park in, a boom gate requires a FOB (frequency operated button) of some kind to open said boom gate to allow the car to go in so it can be parked. 

## 4) Turnstiles

Turnstiles are controlled entry mechanisms designed to manage pedestrian flow and secure areas by allowing only one person to pass at a time.

## 5) Airport Security X-Ray / Metal Detectors 

In Airports, X-Ray and metal detectors are used to ~~prevent~~ reduce the risk of prohibited items from being entered or leaving the country (or just getting on the plane for that matter).

They work by using ionising radiation to scan luggage by shooting X-rays through bags to a detector on the opposite side, measuring density to create a colored image, which an airport security member would look at to try and identify anything suspicious. 

