# A12. Discover 5 unique offline security tools.

## 1) Privacy Screens

They are physical films you place over your monitor/phone screens. They use tiny vertical blinds (micro-louvers) so that the screen is only visible to the person sitting directly in front of it. From a side angle, the screen appears completely black. This is valuable if you are doing work on sensitive documents on planes, trains, open-plan offices, or just don't want people having a peep at what you're up to.

## 2) Webcam Covers and Internal Disconnects

While software can 'disable' a camera, a hacker with root access can often turn it back on without the LED light appearing. Some laptops will have an in-built or a purchasable plastic slider attachment (which is a simple solution to covering webcams), some high-end security laptops feature physical Kill Switches. These are actual toggles on the side of the chassis that physically cut the electricity to the camera and microphone circuits. This gives the user peace and mind knowing that you know for certain no one can see or hear what you're up to. 

## 3) Sign In / Sign Out Sheets

Schools, businesses, etc. will typically have a sign in/sign out sheet whenever a visitor is visiting the premises, or if an item needs to be loaned out to someone (essentially a way to hold people accountable). This provides a log of who/what/when in case an investigation needs to be conducted (like if something was stolen, or if something happens). 

## 4) Motion Detectors

Motion detectors are devices that sense movement within a designated area to trigger actions like lighting, security alerts, or automation. They primarily use tech such as Passive Infrared (PIR) to detect heat changes, or microwave/ultrasonic signals to identify movement. 

## 5) USB Data Blockers

Using a USB port in a public place is almost always a bad idea due to the risk of 'juice jacking' , where hackers use the data pins in a USB port to install malware or siphon files while you charge. A USB data blocker is a small dongle that sits between your charging cable and the USB port. It physically disconnects the data transfer pins while leaving the power pins intact so you can safely charge in a public area without any risk. 

