# A13. Discover 5 unique online security tools.

## 1) Password Managers 

As the name suggests, a password manager manages all of your login credentials in a safe, encrypted place. Most password managers will offer a password generator that generates a secure password as well so you don't need to come up with one every time, and will let you know if any passwords have been found in a data breach and will make recommendations for you to change them as soon as possible. They will also mostly incorporate AES-256 encryption as this is the standard in todays day. 

## 2) VPNs (Virtual Private Networks)

A Virtual Private Network (VPN) is a service that secures your online privacy by encrypting your internet traffic and masking your IP address, making your browsing activity and location anonymous.

It creates a secure and encrypted 'tunnel' between your device and a remote server, preventing ISPs, hackers, or third parties from tracking or accessing your data.

Companies which contain sensitive data might require employees to be on a VPN to access their services if they're working from home due to the sheer nature of the data they're handling. 

People will also use VPNs on public wifi networks to prevent hackers from looking into what they're doing. 

## 3) Authenticators

Authenticators are security tools, typically apps or hardware devices (usbs, phones, etc.), that generate time-based, one-time passwords (TOTP) to provide a second layer of security (2FA/MFA) for online accounts as this makes it much harder for attackers to gain access to
them even if they have your password.

## 4) Antivirus

An antivirus is a security program designed to detect, prevent, and remove malware from computers, laptops, and mobile devices. It provides a multi-layered defence by scanning incoming traffic and files in real time to block threats in real time. It identifies malware using a combination of known code signatures and behavioural analysis, allowing it to detect even previously unknown suspicious activity, and will isolate or remove potential threats. 

## 5) Passkeys

Passkeys replace passwords with cryptographic pairs, a public key on the website and a private key stored on your device. To log in, you simply use either your biometrics (face, fingerprint, etc.) or a PIN to verify your identity locally. This makes them exceptionally secure because they are phishing-resistant since the key is uniquely tied to the specific app/site, meaning credentials can't be given away to a phishing cloned site, and a data breach wouldn't be able to steal a passkey. 


