# A16. Discover 3 local security incidents.

## University of Western Australia 2025 Password Data Breach

At the start of semester 2 last year, our very own university faced a data breach which affected PHEME (what we use to manage our university password), which locked many students and staff out as it required ALL users to reset their passwords and set up MFA (if they hadn't already, this caused a lot of issues and required people to phone IT support because they couldn't change their password without MFA). It took about a week or two for things to go back to normal but it meant that people weren't able to access their LMS or submit assignments on time (the university gave 3-day extensions to allow people time to sort everything out so they could submit assignments). 

Sources: https://www.abc.net.au/news/2025-08-11/university-of-western-australia-uwa-suffers-major-data-breach/105636074 and myself (personally impacted by the breach)

## iiNet Data Breach

In August 2025, iiNet confirmed a cyberattack in which an unauthorised party accessed its order management system, exposing customer contact details. Around 280,000 email addresses, 20,000 landline numbers, and smaller sets of usernames, addresses, phone numbers, and about 1,700 modem passwords were compromised, though no financial or identity documents were involved. The breach was quickly contained, with iiNet working alongside agencies like the Australian Cyber Security Centre and the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner, and notifying affected customers. While the exposed data was considered low sensitivity, experts said that it could still enable phishing and social engineering attacks, prompting advice for customers to remain cautious and update credentials.

Sources: https://australiancybersecuritymagazine.com.au/iinet-confirms-cyber-breach-exposing-customer-contact-details/

## Harry Perkins Institute Data Breach

The Harry Perkins Institute of Medical Research was targeted in a ransomware attack by the group Medusa in July 2024, which claimed to have stolen and released around 4.6TB of data after a ransom demand of over $700,000 was not paid. The institute confirmed that some data was accessed but has not verified the alleged leak, and stated that no patient, research, or donor information was compromised. The public has not been informed of any updates since the breach almost two years ago however there are still concerns that the stolen data such as internal footage could still pose security risks.

Sources: https://www.abc.net.au/news/2024-07-03/harry-perkins-institute-investigates-cyber-security-breach/104054328
